Future Scope
Sentiment Analysis :
entiment analysis or sentiment generation is one of the tasks in NLP. It is defined as the
process of determining the sentiments behind a character sequence. It may be used to
determine whether the speaker or the person expressing the textual thoughts is in a happy
or sad mood, or it represents a neutral expression.
Discourse analysis :
It is another one of the applications of Natural Language Processing. Discourse analysis may
be defined as the process of determining contextual information that is useful for performing
other tasks, such as anaphora resolution (AR)
Information retrieval:
It may be defined as the process of retrieving the most suitable information as a response to
the query being made by the user. In information retrieval, the search is performed based
on metadata or context-based indexing. One example of information retrieval is Google
Search in which, corresponding to each user query, a response is provided on the basis of
the information retrieval algorithm being used. An indexing mechanism is used by the
information retrieval algorithm. The indexing mechanism used is known as an inverted
index. An IR system builds an index postlist to perform the information retrieval task.
Include More dataset Types:
currently the system is working on text documents only,and we can extend it to more types
like pdf,csv,html etc

Conclusion
The project aims providing users with Text Documents that is relevant in terms of their
interest. The . Authorized admin uploads text documents and process the text document
using Text Mining and Information Retrieval mechanism involving NLTK based Preprocess-
ing .According to the user query documents are displayed and most frequents word in the
documents show as recommended keywords. All the nltk modules for Text Mining have
been successfully implemented and result obtained. The Offline Search Engine using Text
Mining by NLTK and Python can substantially improve the way utilizing the vast offline
data in a different manner. The model is now implemented on offline data of a system and
can be extended to smart phone platforms so that the available offline data can be utilized
in an efficient way. Society are in the age of information; They can’t even imagine our life
without Google. We use Siri for the most of basic stuff. We use spam filters for filtering
spam emails. They need spell checker on our Word document. There are many examples of
real world NLP applications around us.So have Implement more NLP concepts like Informa-
tion retrieval which can understand what really user wants and improve the flexibility of the
system.The modification of our system can implement it to some extend.Evaluation of NLP
systems is done so as to analyze whether the output given by the NLP systems is similar to
the one expected from the human output. If errors in the module are identified at an early
stage, then the cost of correcting the NLP system is reduced to quite an extent.
