System Implementation
Offline search engine system aims at providing users with Text Documents that is rele-
vant in terms of their interest. Text Mining and Information Retrieval mechanism involving
NLTK based Preprocessing and extraction of documents are used for this purpose.
6.1
Platform and Tools
The development of this project was done in linux environment. It can run on Linux,
Windows and Macintosh systems. We use Pycharm as the code editor during development.
Platform
System - Linux is preferred for its Unix-like operating system that was designed to provide
personal computer users a free or very low-cost operating system comparable to traditional
and usually more expensive Unix systems. Linux has a reputation as a very efficient and
fast-performing system.
Web Server Apache is the most widely used web server software. Developed and main-
tained by Apache Software Foundation, Apache is an open source software available for free.
It is fast, reliable, and secure. It can be highly customized to meet the needs of many dif-
ferent environments by using extensions and modules.
Tools
The code for calculating the frequency of the word or word-pair(Query),keyword rec-
ommendation are all implemented using Python. Python provides extensive set of libraries

and packages for data mining functionalities which enabled us to develop the project with
great ease.
Python libraries included are:-
• re For regular expression
• nltk (Natural Language Toolkit) For cleaning and pre-processing textual content.
Wordnet was available as a part of nltk
• random Generate pseudo-random numbers
• operator Standard operators as functions
Django - Django web framework is written on the quick and powerful Python language.
Python works on any platform and is also open source. Django very well reduced the
complexities from a web application, giving it a more simplified approach.
jQuery - It is to make it much easier to use JavaScript on your website.jQuery takes a lot
of common tasks that require many lines of JavaScript code to accomplish, and wraps them
into methods that you can call with a single line of code.jQuery also simplifies a lot of the
complicated things from JavaScript, like AJAX calls and DOM manipulation.The jQuery
library contains the following features: HTML/DOM manipulation,CSS manipulation
CSS3 - For most of the designing part of the website, CSS3, bootstrap have been used.
These are modern tools with intuitive benefits and features.
HTML5- It is the latest version of HTML which facilitates addition of various new tags
for adding multimedia objects into the web page. This allows the developer to make the web
page more intuitive, dynamic and user friendly.
