Introduction
Text Mining is the process of deriving high-quality information from
text. High-quality information is typically derived through the devising of
patterns and trends through means such as statistical pattern learning. Text
mining usually involves the process of structuring the input text (usually
parsing, along with the addition of some derived linguistic features and the
removal of others, and subsequent insertion into a database), deriving pat-
terns within the structured data, and finally evaluation and interpretation of
the output. ’High quality’ in text mining usually refers to some combination
of relevance, novelty, and interestingness. Typical text mining tasks include
text categorization, text clustering, concept/entity extraction, production of
granular taxonomies, sentiment analysis, document summarization, and en-
tity relation modeling (i.e., learning relations between named entities).The
proposed system is used to identify the relevant information in the document
directory which matches user’s query.Text is considered to be composed of
two important units in Text Mining System,specifically the document such
as book, magazine paper, chapters, sections, paragraphs, web pages, com-
puter source codes and so on, and the term corresponding to the word, word
pair, and phrase within a document. NLTK is a leading platform for building
Python programs to work with human language data. It provides easy-to-use
interface to over 50 corpora and lexical resources such as WordNet along with
suite of text processing libraries for classification, tokenization, stemming,
tagging, parsing, and semantic reasoning, wrappers for industrial strength
NLP libraries, and an active discussion forum.
Search Engine -Text Min-
ing using Python and NLTK must perform well on offline text documents in
the document directory. Search Engine provides an efficient means of search-
1Introduction
Page 2
ing this large quantity of text for relevant linguistic examples. The main
advantage of Search Engine is size: since you are searching such a large set of
document, you are more likely to find any linguistic pattern you are interested
in, further more you can make use of very specific pattern. Second advantage
is that they are very easy-to-use. The search engine contain a corpora the
large set of document which undergoes set of process like tokanization-which
divide raw text to tokens,Normalisation -remove upper case and capital let-
ter then stemming and lemmatization on affixes.This cleaned data undergoes
word search while querying.The documents get ranked on the basis of the
higher count of the search word.And retrieved the documents accordin
