System analysis is the process of gathering and interpreting facts, diagnos-
ing problems and using the information to recommend improvements on the
system. System analysis is a problem solving activity that requires intensive
communication between the system users and system developers. System
analysis or study is an important phase of any system development process.
The system is studied to the minutest detail and analyzed. The system an-
alyst plays the role of an interrogator and dwells deep into the working of
the present system. The system is viewed as a whole and the inputs to the
system are identified. The outputs from the organization are traced through
the various processing that the inputs phase through in the organization.

Existing System
Search engines provide some popular ways of finding information on the
Internet. There is a wide variety of search engines and features. Some search
engines are on specific websites, allowing visitors to the site to search for spe-
cific words or phrases. Others are broader in scope.An Internet search can
generate a variety of sources for information. Results from online encyclo-
pedias, news stories, university studies, discussion boards, and even personal
blogs can come up in a basic Internet search. This variety allows anyone
searching for information to choose the types of sources they would like to
use, or to use a variety of sources to gain a greater understanding of a sub-
ject. A Search engine is an index of websites. Search engines are created
by software called ‘spiders’ or ‘web crawlers’. They randomly select web
pages to include in the index. Search engines are larger than Subject Direc-
tories, but still only cover a small proportion of the Internet. They generally

cannot index information held in databases contained on web pages.Sites are
randomly selected and indexed for keywords by software. They are not evalu-
ated for quality or relevance.Need to be very specific when selecting keywords
as there are so many web pages.Search can result in far too many results to
check.Results may not be arranged in relevant order. See section on ranking
for more information. You may find the most useful site at the end of the list.
You may also find irrelevant sites.More over an active internet connection is
always needed.

Proposed System
If once we can access the internet the data that can store as offline is
very large.So the document extraction concept have to spread into the offline
data also.Text Mining and Natural language processing is one of the best
solution for that.After the advent of big data, the major challenge is that
we need more people who are good with not just structured, but also with
semi or unstructured data. We are generating petabytes of Weblogs, tweets,
Facebook feeds, chats, e-mails, and reviews. Companies are collecting all
these different kind of data for better customer targeting and meaningful
insights. To process all these unstructured data source we need people who
understand NLP. We are in the age of information; we can’t even imagine
our life without Google. We use Siri for the most of basic stuff. We use
spam filters for filtering spam emails. We need spell checker on our Word
document. There are many examples of real world NLP applications around
us.
Text Mining is used to identify the relevant information in the doc-
ument directory which matches user’s query.Text is considered to be com-
posed of two important units in Text Mining and Information Retrieval Sys-
tem,specifically the document such as book, magazine paper, chapters, sec-
tions, paragraphs, web pages, computer source codes and so on, and the term
corresponding to the word, word pair, and phrase within a document.The doc-
ument with higher word frequency will pop out first.And a suggestion based
on the most frequent words in the search result will be provided
